 1. **Module blacklisting** - The location for the module blacklist is defined by the plugin_filters_cfg parameter found in the defaults section of the Ansible configuration file. By default, it is disabled, and the suggested default value is set to /etc/ansible/plugin_filters.yml.
 

> For example, one of the currently deprecated modules to be completely removed in Ansible 2.11 is sf_account_manager (see https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/porting_ guides/porting_guide_2.7.html#deprecation-notices). Thus, to prevent anyone from using this internally, the plugin_filters.yml file would look like this: --- filter_version:'1.0' 
module_blacklist: 
\# Deprecated – to be removed in 2.11
	\- sf_account_manager

2. **Task performance** - The first is an SSH feature, **ControlPersist**, which provides a mechanism to create persistent sockets when first connecting to a remote host that can be reused in subsequent connections to bypass some of the handshaking required when creating a connection. This can drastically reduce the amount of time Ansible spends on opening new connections. Ansible automatically utilizes this feature if the host platform where Ansible is run from supports it. To check whether your platform supports this feature, check the SSH man page for ControlPersist.
3.  **Task performance** - The second performance enhancement that can be utilized is an Ansible feature called **pipelining**. Pipelining is available to SSH-based connection methods and is configured in the Ansible configuration file within the ssh_connection section: [ssh_connection] pipelining=true This setting changes how modules are transported. Instead of opening an SSH connection to create a directory, another to write out the composed module, and a third to execute and clean up, Ansible will instead open an SSH connection on the remote host. Then, over that live connection, Ansible will pipe in the zipped composed module code and script for execution. This reduces the connections from three to one, which can really add up. By default, pipelining is disabled.
4. **Task performance** - keep in mind that Ansible will only address as many hosts at once as the number of forks Ansible is configured to run. **Forks** are the number of processes Ansible will split off as a worker to communicate with remote hosts. The default is five forks, which will address up to five hosts at once. Raise this number to address more hosts as your environment size grows by adjusting the forks= parameter in an Ansible configuration file, or by using the **--forks (-f)** argument with ansible or ansible-playbook.
5. When Ansible operates on a host, it will attempt to log the action to syslog (if verbosity level three or more is used). If this action is being done by a user with appropriate rights, it will cause a message to appear in the syslog file of the host. This message includes the module name and the arguments passed along to that command, which could include your secrets. To prevent this from happening, a play and task key exists, named no_log. Setting no_log to true will prevent Ansible from logging the action to syslog. Ansible can also be instructed to log its actions locally. This is controlled either through log_path in the Ansible config file, or through an environment variable called ANSIBLE_LOG_PATH. By default, logging is off and Ansible will only log to STDOUT. Turning logging on in the config file causes Ansible to log its activities to the file defined in the config setting log_path.
6. 
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTg3NDIyNzEyMywyMTA0MzU4MjgwLDE3OT
YzMzc0MDEsLTE0NTMwMzgzMzZdfQ==
-->